I"-3<p>Ant Financial, DiDi, Pinduoduo, you might not recognize these names, but they are some of the highest-valued
startups in the world coming from China. Although technology and the concept of startups were first bred in the
United States, unknowingly China has also seen a massive boom in the same sector. Since China has its internet
ecosystem hidden from the world, most people are not familiar with the changes that technology has brought upon
China’s society in recent years. Whether it is the popularization of contactless payment guided by WeChat, or e-
grocery shopping by Missfresh, and even a platform for doctors such as Good Doctor, China has some of the most
innovative startups backed by a government that is ready to invest and promote the industry.</p>

<p>A question often asked by people looking into China for the first time has always been what are their Chinese
counterparts for famous American startups. While it always has not been that straightforward being that
multiple companies competing in a sector are quite common in China and that some of them might not have a
perfect American equivalent in that category. For example by its nature, Bilibili was not supposed to be a
YouTube substitute in China until recently where multiple news outlets reported so. But what is Bilibili? And
what makes it so appetizing for both Tencent and Alibaba to be investing in it?</p>

<hr />

<p>The journey towards my discovery of Bilibili was facilitated by a mobile video game called Honkai Impact 3.
This Chinese-made video game launched on the western market in the middle of 2018 with high praise reflecting
its superior graphics and amazing gameplay. Intrigued by the reviews on some publications, I hesitantly
downloaded it as I was not too sure about the quality of mobile video games at that time. Particularly affected
by games such as Candy Crush and FarmVille, I did not have high expectations going into the game only knowing
that it is anime-inspired.</p>

<p>What awaits me was a 3D Action Role-playing game that is graphically impressive trumping even some billion-
dollar companies coupled with smooth controls in a smartphone. Aware of the fact that the video game was
developed in China, I was very curious whether there are similarly made mobile games of the highest quality.
Searching through the internet, I discovered a treasure trove of information with one of them being a website
called Bilibili.</p>

<p>Browsing through the website shows various videos catered towards fans of ACGs (Anime, Comics, and Games). The
first impression that I felt when analyzing this website was how much of a unique platform it is compared to a
video-sharing website such as YouTube. A “Mecca for Gen Z by Gen Z” is what I would describe this website to
be. A gathering place for young adults wishing for one-stop entertainment be it live streaming, video games, or
even shopping for their favorite character’s figures. However, as someone that does not speak Chinese, I could
not get myself immersed in the website enough to understand the content and full features they offer.
Eventually, I forgot about Bilibili.</p>

<p>At the end of 2019, the boom of Virtual YouTubers attracted me towards Bilibili once again. As various
translated user-edited videos make its way towards YouTube from Bilibili, a lot of Virtual YouTuber fans start
to shift their attention towards the Chinese platform. As for myself, I started to understand the potential of
a creative user-based experience where content provided by the community has entertained me more than
television-inspired reality shows generic to YouTube. The question in my mind persists nonetheless on its
popularity in China and its relevance in the global market.</p>

<hr />

<p>Bilibili, as explained before, is a website focused on animations and video games based in China. During the
early days of the website, they specifically specialize in ACG content as a fan website to Japanese culture
catering to the local enthusiasts. Over the years, they have grown as a company expanding their business and
monetization towards categories such as mobile games, advertising, and e-commerce. Coupled with their premium
memberships allowing access to various shows and high-quality video streaming, Bilibili has become one of
China’s biggest video platforms alongside Tencent video and iQiyi.</p>

<p>From the start of Bilibili as a platform, the specialization towards Japanese culture in a subject manner helps
form a very tight-knit community. This in turn allows Bilibili to retain a lot of their core audiences and even
grow their Monthly Active Users. Going year by year, they have increased in viewership since their demographic
is mostly students or young graduates born from 1990 or above. Engagement as a factor for these young viewers
also helps spread the word, by using “bullet comments” Bilibili has managed to improve its platform socially
compared to other video-sharing websites. Positivity in the community also helps Bilibili retain their viewers
and creators alike.</p>

<p>The growth of Bilibili can be attributed to the growing ACG market in East Asia. Especially in regards to video
games, as most of Bilibili’s revenue in 2020 comes from mobile games licensed originating out of Japan or
China’s homemade indie mobile game market. Live streaming is also a big factor as the growth of eSports in the
Asian market keeps exponentially increasing, China, as one of the largest consumers of such entertainment needs
a platform such as Bilibili to host it. Recently, they have landed deals with various organizations around the
world to broadcast and translate their events in real-time. Compared to traditional platforms such as iQiyi and
Tencent video mentioned before, Bilibili’s focus on their audience’s interests helps them create a more
concentrated platform increasing their premium membership by a large amount in recent years.</p>

<p>Even though Bilibili might not be as popular in the mainstream compared to platforms such as Douyin or
Kuaishou, they still hold a significant portion of China’s users under 30. Compared to the other two
applications, Bilibili has another advantage over them which is the engagement factor of being involved in
organizing offline events. One such event is called BilibiliWorld hosted and organized by the company itself.
Corresponding to other major anime or video game-related conventions in the world, this event holds great
importance to the user base of the website. As various companies from outside of China come and showcase their
products, many of Bilibilis premium members get access to cheaper VIP tickets, discounted goods, and even
recorded videos of the event. Around the world, most conventions such as these are usually hosted by non-profit
organizations as such Bilibili holds the power to subsidize regular tickets allowing for normal users and even
untapped audiences to participate.</p>

<hr />

<p>Without major competition in the market, YouTube has knowingly been slacking in its content offerings and
their monetization policies. In turn, companies in China have been making substantial progress in
understanding what their user base wants. Take in case, Douyin or Tik Tok outside of China, they are one of
the most valuable startups in the world due to their excellence in predicting what their user base desire to
consume in a limited amount of time.</p>

<p>Bilibili however does content recommendation more simply since their user base is mostly ACG focused.
Executives and employees in the company understand what their user base wants as they are ACG fans themselves.
This results in a plethora of video games both mobile and console to be licensed and published by Bilibili
further offering their premium audiences another reason to stay. Additionally, Bilibili also affords homegrown
animations and documentaries coupled with various other perks such as video game live streaming and online
tournaments.</p>

<p>As content is the primary factor in social media websites to hook their audiences, eventually what keeps them
as active users are their features combined with those content provided. Bilibili, unlike any other social
platform outside of China, offers a robust amount of supplementary options to keep ACG fans absorbed on the
website. On top of the usual videos on the website, Bilibili adopted “bullet comments” from a well known
Japanese streaming platform called NicoNico. These “bullet comments” fly across the screen offering various
users to customize the video for others to see. Bilibili’s technology also allows users to customize these
comments so that they can be colored, shaped, and animated differently. At first, it might seem distracting
but for regulars, they offer an experience quite similar to watching with friends. Also, Bilibili offers a
gamification system for their users to level up and unlock various customization for their profile and
comments.</p>

<p>As said before, what truly makes Bilibili unique is its commitment to the ACG community in China. Starting as
a new user, you will be asked to take a 100 question exam regarding ACGs. These questions involve knowledge
concerning Japanese culture, animation, and video games with some questions asking about Bilibili’s terms of
service and ethics on the website. While another website tends to make registering as easy as possible,
Bilbili on the other hand does the opposite. But to this effect, the community has a higher engagement rate
compared to other social platforms. Rules are also enforced quite strictly as those who pass the test are
already screened making the community quite positive allowing the company to introduce risky features.
Features like “bullet comments” for example can be used to troll other viewers but Bilibili’s community and
management is well equipped to handle such users.</p>

<hr />

<p>Yet with all these advantages, Bilibili has been suffering an identity and financial crisis. Since its IPO in
2018, the website has substantially increased in net revenue but its net profits remain in the negatives. This
comes in a time when their Monthly Active User and Monthly Paying Users skyrocket year over year. Moreover,
YouTube has beaten Bilibili in the category of revenue sharing with its content creators by a large margin.
Another major problem would be that Bilbili has the majority of its revenue coming from mobile games both
overseas and locally. In the future, they need to strive to turn a positive profit while diversifying their
source of revenue and increase their content creators incentive to stay in the platform.</p>

<p>Both founders and co-founders of the company also struggle with the fact that their approach to business is
very passive, appearing indifferent to both publicity and profits. Sooner or later the company will have to
realize that to achieve profitability they may have to sacrifice some of their values. This includes a change
in the website’s community and its contents, moreover, this can already be seen today as the questions to
register as a Bilibili member has been easier than previous years. As content imported and licensed from Japan
are rather limited, Bilibili has offered to add Chinese animations and movies onto their platform, however,
this cannot keep going on as the former is a very niche market in the ACG community.</p>

<p>With the problem of lacking local content and creators alike, the executives at the company pulled the lever
adopting the strategy of expansion. Many more mainstream artists and advertisement topics are shown on
Bilibili in the past few months. In addition to the ease in user acquirement, this has lead to a mass influx
of users resulting in the previously mentioned increase in Monthly Active Users which greatly benefits them.
This does come with the immense drawbacks of their original user base being very unhappy. Resulting in a very
few dedicated ACG fans leaving the platform and moving into others while a good majority still stands as
active users. Overall, Bilibili has seen a major change lately for better or for worse. Most of their user
base is not happy with the changes coming as this will undoubtedly change the tight-knit community into a
somewhat mainstream platform going the way of YouTube or Youku.</p>

<hr />

<p>In the end, I still believe Bilibili is a great platform for the millions of ACG fans in China. As the war
rages between core audiences and new members of Bilibili’s community, I hope to see both founders find a
solution to expanding their company and bringing in more profits through diversification without hurting ACG
enthusiasts. A potential I see for the company is to enter both the Korean and Southeast Asian markets. They
need to realize that there is still untapped potential to create a one-stop-shop for ACG fans in those
regions. Whether it is through licensing Japanese animation, creating a global game store, or helping Chinese
and Japanese streamers localize their content, there are many supporters waiting for such a platform.</p>
:ET