I"o	<p>Ant Financial, DiDi, Pinduoduo, you might not recognize these names but they
are some of the highest valued startups in the world coming from China. Although
technology and the concept of startups were first bred in the United States, unknowingly
China has also seen a massive boom in the same sector. Due to the fact that China
has their own internet ecosystem hidden from the world, most people are not familiar
with the changes that technology has brought upon China’s society in recent years.
Whether it is the popularization of contactless payment guided by WeChat, or e-grocery
shopping by Missfresh, and even a platform for doctors such as Good Doctor, China
has some of the most innovative startups backed by a government that is ready to invest
and promote the industry.</p>

<p>A question often asked by people looking into China for the first time has always
been what are their Chinese counterparts for famous American startups. While it
always has not been that straightforward being that multiple companies competing
in a sector is quite common in China and that some of them might not have a perfect
American equivalent in that category. For example by its nature, Bilibili was not supposed
to be a YouTube substitute in China until recently where multiple news outlets
reported so. But what is Bilibili really? and what makes it so appetizing for
both Tencent and Alibaba to be investing in it?</p>

<hr />

<p>The journey towards my discovery of Bilibili was facilitated by a mobile video
game called Honkai Impact 3. This Chinese-made video game launched on the western
market in the middle of 2018 with high praises reflecting its superior graphics
and amazing gameplay. Intrigued by the reviews on some publications, I hesitantly
downloaded it as I was not really too sure on the quality of mobile video games
at that time. Particularly affected by games such as Candy Crush and FarmVille,
I did not have high expectations going into the game only knowing that it is
anime-inspired.</p>

<p>What awaits me was a 3D Action Roleplaying game that is graphically impressive
trumping even some billion dollar companies coupled with smooth controls. Aware of
the fact that the video game was developed in China, I was very curious whether there
similarly made mobile games of the highest quality. Searching through the internet
I discovered the Chinese video games and entertainment industry</p>
:ET